# Preflight: Assessment00 and Practice Problems

Yay! We're super excited that you'll be arriving soon! We have some
practice work before you take your first assessment. Read on!

## Assessment Practice Problems

To make sure people are prepared, **we give everyone the first, simple
assessment before the course begins**. The first assessment is
particularly important; it tells you whether you are adequately
prepared for the course. To help you prepare, we've **included 10
practice problems (and solutions) for you to study**. The practice
problems are a little harder than those on the assessment, because we
want you to over- rather than under-prepare :-)

## Practice Problem Instructions

The instructions for the practice problems are written inside the spec
files (in the `spec` directory); check those for instructions on what
you are supposed to do. You can run the specs for an individual
problem like so:

    rake spec spec/00_nearest_larger_spec.rb

You can write your code in the corresponding files in `lib` (e.g.,
`lib/00_nearest_larger.rb`). I've filled them out with a blank method
for you.

Make sure to look at the results it turns back; look at which tests
fail and then start to figure out why.

My advice is to solve them all once, then put your solutions away and
solve them all again. **Practice until you are fluent!**

## Assessment00 Schedule

On **Monday, April 29**, we'll open the window for taking the
assessment00. As with all our assessments, the exercise is timed
(1hr). You'll have until **12:01 AM, Monday, May 06** to complete
it. We want you to complete it a week before class begins so you have
time to further prepare if necessary.

We'll send out a link where you may request and complete assessment
online.

The assessment mimics the practice problems: it consists of several
problems and their accompanying test specs. Your job it to get the
specs to "go green" and pass (just like with the practice problems.

**So dive into the practice problems and good luck!**

## Assessments Generally

Completing assessments successfuly is really important in providing
you feedback and helping you to track your progress through the
course. They are meant to help by letting you know how you are
performing in the course.

**Assessments are very important; students are required to pass
them**. We want everyone to be successful here, but we also don't want
a student to be fall behind to the point where the course is no longer
helping them. If the program is not working for a student or they get
to the point where they can't pair with other students, we do want
them to find another environment where they will be successful.

For that reason, students who fail an assessment will need to make up
the work to keep up with the rest of the class. Students who fail two
assessments will be asked to leave the program.

Ideally you will all ace the first assessment. **However, if a student
does very poorly, we will probably want to talk with them about
whether they are prepared for the class**. The main thing is that we
don't want people to start out already behind; the class accelerates
quickly, so we really want everyone to be properly prepared.
